Troop 2024 Mobilization plan


Purpose of the Plan
* Provide a reliable response framework for emergencies.
* Mobilize Boy Scout Troop 2024 to assist during emergencies.
* Support local emergency response teams.


Troop 2024 Mobilization Steps 
1. Local emergency officials, including the American Red Cross or Community Emergency Response Team (CERT), notify the Scoutmaster to provide assistance for an Emergency Service Response.
2. The Scoutmaster will prepare a scripted message for each Scout, including instructions for necessary responses or feedback, and a reminder to obtain parental permission for the activity.
3. The Scoutmaster informs the Troop Committee Chairman and Assistant Scoutmasters about the troop mobilization through phone and email communications, and posts an announcement on the troop website.
4. The Scoutmaster instructs the SPL to begin the Troop Mobilization Plan and provides the SPL with the scripted message and necessary information to start the mobilization.
5. The SPL begins contacting and informing all Scouts about the troop mobilization using the Phone Tree Steps and the message provided by the Scoutmaster.
6. Each Scout uses the Phone Tree Steps and the scripted message to contact the Scouts at the next level of the Phone Tree.
7. Report to the emergency response location at the designated time according to received instructions.
8. The SPL leads the troop in an "after-action" review using the Evaluation Process from the Troop Mobilization Plan to enhance future mobilizations.
9. After completing the designated task, the SPL and Scoutmaster schedule another drill approximately half a year from the current one.
Mobilization Rules
1. Bring a complete Personal Emergency Service Pack.
2. Wear a Class A Uniform to the emergency response mobilization location.
3. Be ready to stay for the whole duration of the Emergency Service Response.
5. Direct all communications, questions, or requests for information from outsiders
to the Scoutmaster and/or the SPL at all times.
6. Report all injuries to the Scoutmaster and SPL.


Troop Mobilization Script:
1. Objective of the mobilization.
2. Writing materials.
3. Location.
4. Time.
5. Uniform requirements.
6. Items to bring (Personal Emergency Service Pack, tools, etc.).
7. Feedback for the Scoutmaster or SPL.
8. Confirmation of participation in the troop mobilization.
9. The SPL contacts the Patrol Leaders using the current Phone Tree (Appendix B), ensuring they have writing materials. He then reads the scripted message clearly and requests them to repeat it back.
10. The caller confirms that the Scout contacted has the names and numbers of the individuals he needs to call next. If this information is unavailable, the caller provides it.


Phone Tree Rules:
1. Call until you talk to a person.
2. Make sure that the Scout called has access to a writing utensil and paper.
3. Read the information slowly and clearly.
4. Ask the Scout to repeat information back to verify.
5. provide the names of the Scouts in the next branch of the phone tree.
6. The Patrol Leaders continue this procedure to the subsequent "level" on the phone tree.
7. The Scouts at the next "level" on the phone tree continue making calls until everyone has been contacted.


Emergency Plan B
If phones are unavailable the phone tree will still be followed. Instead of calling the Scouts, you must find a source of transportation, and contact them in person, at their houses.


Evaluation Process: 
Annually, we should have a practice mobilization to test the system and see if  the phone tree still works. These tests should be random like real mobilization drills. To assess the effectiveness of the drill, it should be measured on how it provides a structure for response, and effectively mobilizes a group of Boy Scouts to aid in emergencies. Following these guidelines, we can ask specific questions to evaluate the process's reliability and identify areas for improvement such as the questions:
1. Did you understand the mobilization drill procedures? If not, what part(s) did you
not understand?
2. Who, how, and when were you contacted about the drill?
3. Were drill instructions clear? If not, what could be improved?
4. Was the drill conducted in a timely manner that would be applicable in an actual
emergency?
5. Do you think the drill was close to what might happen during an actual
emergency?
6. What was the greatest source of conflict, friction, or lack of communication
encountered during the drill?
7. Can you think of any way(s) the drill process could be improved?
8. What were the successes of the drill?
9. On a scale of one to ten, one being the least, and ten being the most, how successful was the emergency mobilization drill?