Leadership Planning Meeting
August,12 2024; 9-10:36 pm


AGENDA 
Plus Meeting Minutes


Attendees:
Dan Haggman, Chartered Org Rep
Julie Goldstrom, Committee Chair
Jeremy Bramwell, Scoutmaster
Colleen McDaid, Asst Scoutmaster
Nicole Allen, Advancement Coordinator
Rick McMurtry, Treasurer
Dave Baddley, Scouter
Dave Heilman, Scouter
Anthony Burnett, Scouter
Skip Lockard, Scouter (for beginning of meeting only)


1. Adult Leadership for 2024-2025 - confirm roles, responsibilities & training
   1. Announced Julie Goldstrom as new Committee Chair; Dan will add her to MyScouting
      1. She will complete position specific training soon, hopefully within a month
   2. Jeremy and Colleen completed all position-required training at Woodruff over summer and are fully trained leaders.
   3. Nicole and Anthony completed CPR training at Woodruff.
   4. Reiterated that all campouts must have trained adult with IOLS and Hazardous Weather
      1. Currently have 3 with IOLS training - Nicole, Jeremy, and Colleen
      2. 9/21 District event will offer another IOLS training 
   5. Some Scouters have expired training – not sure if it’s because they registered directly 




2. Finance Update - 
   1. Reimbursement for campouts jan-june?  
      1. Dan confirmed he needs to submit and be reimbursed for the spring campouts IAO $439.72. He will also add the Red Top campout from summer and submit for reimbursement.
      2. Dave Baddley has already been reimbursed for the 2 nights from summer.
   2. Pizza (Jeremy needs to )
      1. Jeremy and Colleen need to submit for missing pizza.
      2. Currently budgeting $66/meeting for pizza.
   3. tshirts (class b) wait on it until we need new shirts, all have one and we have a few more.
      1. Rick asked if we should keep the $150 in the budget for t-shirts, and we all agreed that we don’t need any t-shirts for awhile so can remove this line item.
   4. Christmas project: use budget money for wreaths across america.
      1. Need to ask Ed Elkins if we need to pay anything toward the wreaths. 
   5. Scout Activity Expense line item of $200 – it’s for non-camping activities (rafting, etc) but since everyone usually pays their own way, we agreed to remove from budget
   6. Cancelled campout fees – agreed that we will reimburse for food that is not shelf-stable in addition to absorbing the cancellation fees.
      1. Cancelled campouts cost an average of $250 as long as we cancel before 1 week out. If we wait until within one week, the site cancellation fee increases from $10 to 50% of the cost.
   7. Project how fees will be paid this recharter.
      1. Scouts will register individually and pay the BSA fee and then pay a separate fee to our troop for incidentals.
      2. We have over $1100 left in our budget so we do not need to increase dues.




3. Finalize campouts for Sept 2024 - July 2025
   1. Trip captains? Requirements of adult training for campouts (see above notes)
   2. Discuss responsibilities to participate in Camporee, District & Council events
      1. 9/21 is Cub Adventure Day and Webelos Woods so will be 2 night campout option plus volunteering at Cub Scout event
      2. 9/28 is Pace Mountain
         1. Agreed Pace Mountain is a Cub Scout event, not BSA event, and any BSA Scout would attend as a volunteer, just like other Cub Scout events
      3. Not sure that Conservation Weekend will be a troop         attended event, but Scouts can sign up as provisional. Still have several weeks to sign up and merit badge offerings will be closer to the date.
         1. Dave and Erich Heilman will likely go to Conservation Weekend.
         2. Dave Baddley said that weekend is sectionals for Cross Country so they are likely out.
   3. 10/19 is Fall Fair and we need to discuss how Scouts will help and what will be prep for event
      1. Nicole suggested moving Court of Honor to from 10/9 to 11/12  because she will be busy helping Hart with Fall Fair project
   4. 10/26 is campout at FDR with the haunted house. Anthony researching activities, booking and then communicating with parents.
   5. Are we doing a backpacking trip?
      1. January is cold so we discussed something warm, and someone suggested a possible Caving campout. Nicole said she knew a Caving MBC, and we discussed having MBC come to a weekly meeting for boys to earn requirements before the Caving campout.
      2. February will be Cumberland Island. Discussed 1 night vs 2 nights and agreed on 1 night on Saturday night so high schoolers can do homework on the Monday holiday. Agreed to book when it comes available as it’s only $12/night for up to 6 people, so Dan will reserve 3 campsites for the Saturday night only. 
   6. Are we allowing campouts Summer 2025? - Not really discussed
   7. Do we register for a High Adventure Camp this year? - Not really discussed
   8. Dan discussed needing more hike-in campouts. Said FDR has some options.
   9. All agreed to Red Top in March.


Tentative CAMPOUTS:
* August - no campout
* September - potential 2-nighter Fri/Sat September 20/21 @ Pine Acres (volunteering at Cub Adventure/Webelos Woods - Phoenix District event).  Need to find out who is coming and when they can serve to help cub scouts.
* Saturday October 19th - attempting to organize Scout service project at Fall Fair (selling used spirit wear) add workday to teamsnap.  
* October 26 - Campout @ FDR State Park (boys wanted to go to Haunted House there) -
* November - 2-nighter @ Conservation Weekend - Fri/Sat November 8/9th @ Woodruff Scout camp
* December - no campout, Troop Service Project: Wreaths Across America on Saturday December 14th
* January - Caving trip?  TN 
* February - Feb14-16 Cumberland Island
* March - campout Saturday March 22, venue TBD for PLC to decide  South?
* April - campout Saturday April 26, venue TBD for PLC to decide  Red Top?
* May - no campout




4. Colleen introduced Life Scouts needing to continue to participate in troop, even after 6 months of POR. She shared that other leaders at Woodruff confirmed this is normal.
   1. Other leaders agreed but wanted to be sure we had clear communication to the Scouts about the change.
   2. Nicole also said that this was not how the troop originally started. David Owens even had Eagle Scouts stay on for the rest of the school year.


5. Confirmed that the 9/20 troop meeting can happen as Jeremy and Julie will be able to attend.


6. Dan also confirmed that Chris Spires is definitely no longer Committee Chair.




7. Other troop Activities for 2024 - 2025 (go-carting, paintball, etc) - trip captains ?
* Not discussed


8. Process Improvements for next year
   1. Expectations for PORs, PORs over summer, time commitments
      1. Confirmed PORs from Connor Goldstrom (SPL): Markus Burnett as Quartermaster; Henry Baddley as Historian, and Ollie Lockard as Scribe
   2. Next elections for PORs
      1. Agreed summer time was not much for PORs, and Jeremy would like to wait to have SPL election and new PORs until later into winter so that Scouts are not so focused on the rank advancement requirement.
   3. Patrol Method
      1. Jeremy reiterated that we are trying to move more to the Scout-led format and reminded us that it’s a journey.
   4. Scheduling PLCs monthly - not discussed
   5. Journey to Excellence - discussed only as a reminder that we have the J2E framework to guide us
      1. Discussed setting up a Troop Committee Meeting and Julie agreed
   6. Medical Forms - who is collecting & managing these?
      1. Confirmed that we will remind any Scout or adult Scouter who has not turned in yet that we need it.
      2. Discussed possibly having Anna Bramwell keep records
   7. Required training for registered adults


9. Confirm Troop Meeting nights for 2024-2025
Tentative Troop Meeting Dates 2024-2025
*Rick will need to send these to Jasmine/Pace to request Facilities space as soon as we confirm dates
* August 20
* September 3
* September 17
* October 8 - (Workday for Spirit wear sorting and organizing?)
* October 22 - 
* November 12 - COH?
* December 3
* January 14
* January 28
* February 11
* February 25
* March 11
* March 25
* April 8
* April 22
* May 6 (last)
Nicole confirmed she will put all dates on Team Snap.


10. Confirm date for Court of Honor this Fall 2025 - Nov 12?


11. Woodruff 2025 or a different camp? We’ll need to pay November 1
   1. Not finalized