Merit Badges
  
  

  

  
  

 Eagle 
Life -6 months        
St a r-6 months 
First Class-4 months   
Se cond Class 
Tenderfoot  
GUIDE TO ADVANCEMENT 
2021 Scout           
Scouts BSA Rank 
REQUIREMENTS 
These rank requirements are official as of Jan. 1, 2023. If a Scout has started  work toward a rank before that date using requirements that were current  before Jan. 1, 2023, except as noted below, the Scout may complete that rank  using the old requirements. Any progress toward a rank that is begun after  Jan. 1, 2023, must use the requirements as they are presented on scouting.org. 
SCOUT  
Rank Requirements
All requirements for the Scout rank must be completed as a member  of a troop or as a Lone Scout. If you have already completed these  requirements as part of the Webelos Scouting Adventure, simply  demonstrate your knowledge or skills to your Scoutmaster or other  designated leader after joining the troop. 
® 
1a. Repeat from memory the Scout Oath, Scout Law, Scout motto,  and Scout slogan. In your own words, explain their meaning.  
1b. Explain what Scout spirit is. Describe some ways you have  shown Scout spirit by practicing the Scout Oath, Scout Law,  Scout motto, and Scout slogan.  
 1c. Demonstrate the Scout sign, salute, and handshake. Explain  when they should be used. 
1d. Describe the First Class Scout badge and tell what each  part stands for. Explain the significance of the First Class  Scout badge.  
 1e. Repeat from memory the Outdoor Code. List the seven principles  of Leave No Trace. Explain the difference between the two.  
 1f. Repeat from memory the Pledge of Allegiance. In your own  words, explain its meaning.  
6 
 2. After attending at least one Scout troop meeting,  
do the following:  
2a. Describe how the Scouts in the troop provide its leadership. 2b. Describe the four steps of Scout advancement.  
 2c. Describe what the Scouts BSA ranks are and how they are earned. 2d. Describe what merit badges are and how they are earned.  
3a. Explain the patrol method. Describe the types of patrols that  are used in your troop.  
3b. Become familiar with your patrol name, emblem, flag, and yell.  Explain how these items create patrol spirit.  
4a. Show how to tie a square knot, two half-hitches, and a taut line hitch. Explain how each knot is used.  
4b. Show the proper care of a rope by learning how to whip and  fuse the ends of different kinds of rope.  
 5. Tell what you need to know about pocketknife safety and  responsibility.  
 6. With your parent or guardian, complete the exercises in the  pamphlet How to Protect Your Children From Child Abuse: A  
Parent's Guide and earn the Cyber Chip Award for your grade  or view the Personal Safety Awareness videos (with your parent  or guardian’s permission).1 
 7. Since joining the troop and while working on the Scout rank,  participate in a Scoutmaster conference. 
Notes: The requirements for Scout, Tenderfoot, Second Class, and First Class ranks may be worked on simultaneously;  however, these ranks must be earned in sequence.  
Alternative requirements for the Scout rank are available for Scouts with physical or mental disabilities if they meet the  criteria listed in the Scouts BSA Requirements book. 
1If your family does not have internet access at home AND you do not have ready internet access at school or another  public place or via a mobile device, the Cyber Chip portion of this requirement may be waived by your Scoutmaster in  consultation with your parent or guardian.
7 
TENDERFOOT  
Rank Requirements
1a. Present yourself to your leader, prepared for an overnight  camping trip. Show the personal and camping gear you will  
use. Show the right way to pack and carry it.  
1b. Spend at least one night on a patrol or troop campout. Sleep in  a tent you have helped pitch.  
 1c. Explain how you demonstrated the Outdoor Code and Leave No  Trace on campouts or outings.  
2a. On the campout, assist in preparing one of the meals. Tell  why it is important for each patrol member to share in meal  
preparation and cleanup.  
2b. While on a campout, demonstrate the appropriate method of  safely cleaning items used to prepare, serve, and eat a meal.  
 2c. Explain the importance of eating together as a patrol.  
3a. Demonstrate a practical use of the square knot.  
3b. Demonstrate a practical use of two half-hitches.  
 3c. Demonstrate a practical use of the taut-line hitch.  
3d. Demonstrate proper care, sharpening, and use of the knife,  saw, and ax. Describe when each should be used.  
4a. Show first aid for the following:  
 • Simple cuts and scrapes 
 • Blisters on the hand and foot 
 • Minor (thermal/heat) burns or scalds (superficial,  
or first-degree) 
 • Bites or stings of insects and ticks 
 • Venomous snakebite 
 • Nosebleed 
 • Frostbite and sunburn 
 • Choking 
4b. Describe common poisonous or hazardous plants; identify any  that grow in your local area or campsite location. Tell how to  
treat for exposure to them.  
4c. Tell what you can do while on a campout or other outdoor  activity to prevent or reduce the occurrence of injuries or  
exposure listed in Tenderfoot requirements 4a and 4b.  
4d. Assemble a personal first-aid kit to carry with you on future  campouts and hikes. Tell how each item in the kit would be used.  
5a. Explain the importance of the buddy system as it relates to  your personal safety on outings and where you live. Use the  
buddy system while on a troop or patrol outing.  
5b. Describe what to do if you become lost on a hike or campout.  
8 

WOODRUFF SCOUT CAMP 2023