Practice Board of Review Questions


This is a list of questions we recall from previous Eagle Boards and internet searches. This is the general flavor of the questions they will ask you but keep in mind they may ask you something we don’t expect. There are many “right” answers for the questions below (and only a few things that you can say that would clearly be wrong). It’s up to you to say what you believe. Please use this list to think about and PRACTICE what you are going to say. 




1. Scouting views becoming an Eagle Scout as just the beginning of your journey. How do you plan to stay involved in Scouting going forward? (Make sure to have an answer for this)
2. What is the difference between GETTING Eagle and BEING Eagle?
3. The first eight words in the Scout Oath are “On my honor I will do my best.” What does honor mean to you?
4. What was the worst campout you went on? What happened and how did you overcome it?
5. What was the best campout you went on?
6. When was the last camping trip you took with your troop?
7. What was your favorite merit badge? 
8. Which badge was the least helpful or needs to be retired in 2023?
9. What point of the Scout Law do you think is the hardest for the youth of today to follow? Why?
10. What point of the Scout Law means the most to you?
11. If you had to add a point to the Scout Law, what would it be?
12. There are 21 merit badges required for Eagle. If you had to add one more to the required list, which one would it be, and why?
13. If you can start all over again, would you join scouting?
14. What would you tell a scout who is just starting? 
15. What would you change about your experience with scouting thus far?
16. How do you balance a major  accomplishment like obtaining Eagle with the perception that scouting is not cool?
17. The Eagle Project:
   1. How did you pick this project?
   2. What was the most satisfying part of the project?
   3. What was the most difficult part?
   4. If you had to do it over again, what would you do differently?
   5. How did you teach others to do the tasks required?
18. We’ve noticed you had a leadership position in your troop, what do you think was the most challenging part of leading other scouts?
19. Who is harder to lead, children or adults?
20. Outside of scouting, what do you like to do?
21. Tell me about your plans for the remainder of high school.
22. What do you see yourself doing in college? Where do you want to go?
23. What do you think you might do for a career?
24. How do you think scouting has helped you be more successful in the future?
25. What question were you worried we would ask you?




Tips for Success:
* Be familiar with every word you wrote in your application. They will read it carefully. 
* Be prepared to talk about the questions above
* Remember the people who wrote your letters of recommendation and why you picked these people. 
* The Eagle Board is about talking. Make sure you practice your answers out loud. 
* Be confident, you have earned the right to sit in that chair. Most people have not.
* Try to enjoy the process. This will be the first of many big interviews you will have in  your lifetime. 
* DO NOT mention how our meetings and badge classes were on Zoom for an extended period of time during COVID. Our troop was an outlier in not holding meetings in person. You will get uncomfortable questions from the Board asking how you were able to advance in rank and teach younger scouts if you weren’t in person. 
* You will get asked if you attended any High Adventure Camps during your time in Scouts. There are several national High Adventure summer camps that many troops participate in (10 day backpacking trip in New Mexico, 10 day canoeing trip in Minnesota). Our troop has historically been too new and too small to prioritize these, instead going to Woodruff Summer Camp over to earn ranks and merit badges. If asked, it’s best to answer “I’ve heard about High Adventure, but our troop hasn’t participated yet. However, I’ll certainly consider it for next summer.”
* If you are younger than a Junior, you may get questions about being young for an Eagle candidate, as most candidates are closer to 18. If you are asked how you were able to complete all requirements so young, it is fine to mention the COVID lockdown. For example, “During the lockdown, our school classes were on Zoom and the teachers didn’t know how to teach virtually, so we often ended our school day early. I used that extra time to work on rank advancement or online merit badges.”